Testing software is important for many reasons, however, bad tests are far more harmful than no tests at all. First we need to identify what bad tests are, bad tests assert against implementation details in the module, good tests assert against the behaviors of the module (for more information read my blog post "Testing Implementation VS. Behavior"). How do we ensure that we are not testing implementation? React Testing Library to the rescue!

What exactly is React Testing Library? RTL allows you to render React components as DOM nodes, like the browser does. RTL is built on top of DOM Testing Library, which is a set of API's that allows you to make assertions against DOM nodes. This creates a synergistic relationship between the two, once RTL renders the component as a DOM node, DTL can then make assertions against the node. This means is you are able to test what is being rendered to the DOM from the component (the behavior of the component), instead of testing items such as props and state which are implementation details.

Using RTK has other advantages to its use. It exposes an API called userEvent that allows you to interact with DOM nodes the same way users would (click, type, hover, etc). This allows us to test the application in the same way that a user would interact with it, giving even more confidence in our tests (https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/977018512689455106). RTK also encourages the use of query API "getByRole" whenever possible, which targets elements by their ARIA role. Targeting elements by their ARIA role enforces the use of proper sematic HTML increasing the accessability of the application.

Writing tests isn't always the most exciting task, nor is it easy. Thankfully RTL has simplified many of the pain points of writing tests, and made testing behavior much easier.
